# What I did:
- 

# Organizational:
- 

# Problems:
- 

# Questions:
- (Why are we using the montgomery representation and not the twisted edwards representation of the Curve25519 instantiation? (Answer: For exponentiations most likely not more efficient))
- Is there an easy way to test the implementations in circom or do I need to built my own bash scripts?
- What is the "P ominus Q" part in the pseudooperation xAdd needed for and how can I compute it (Or does the circuit compiler compute this and I do not need to provide it as an input?)
- Please explain the okeya-sakurai recovery algorithm. I do not understand this very well.
- In your implementation of the Okeya-Sakurai-y-Recovery, you said that this only works if $P\neq Q$. I get, why $Q=\mathcal{O}$ and $Q=-P$ are a problem, but why would $P=Q$ be problematic?
- In Your implementation ("exponent_homogeneous_point_bit_exponent") you make a distinction between even and odd exponents if the input is the zero point and fix the outpur accordingly. Why do you do that? Also, I don't understand why the result is infty if the exponent is even and zero if it is not.
- Could you maybe send me the comparison between montgomery and twisted edwards curves we talked about in the last meeeting? I think that could be useful.
- What is the significance of the "bit_randomness" variant of your ExponentialElGamal Encryption implementation? (see "expelgamalgates.py", line 11)
- Why are we trying to minimize the number of constraints needed for such things as the group law or the y-recovery (both less than 100 constraints), when the overall number of contraints is dominated by the montgomery ladder (5941 constraints for 256 bits, 2397 constraints for 32 bits) anyways?
- In the implementation of Multi-Vote with Rules: Why are we checking whether the ballot has length at least two and don't just assert it? (That is what I did in my implementation)
- In the implementation of Pointlist-Borda: Why does the pointlist need to be ordered descendingly? I thought this does not matter.
- For some election types I am not sure, what is part of the ballot and what is part of the election type. E.g., in Pointlist Borda: Is the pointlist part of the ballot or the election type?
- Can you show me how you evaluated the performance of the circuits in your implementation? (So that I can follow a similar approach for mine.)
- In my implementation of corda Tournament style, I get a lot of constraints (ca. 100000 for 100 candidates). Can you maybe take a look at this to see whether I am doing something wrong?
- For condorcet methods: Why are we not using the same approach as for borda tournament style: We could just use a ranking together with the ballot and assert that tha ballot computed from the ranking is the same as the given one. (Or am I missing something?)
- In Majority Judgement: Why are we not using range chaks for the grades instead of encoding them unary in the rows of the ballot matrix?
- 


# TODO:
- Check what "linear, non-linear" constraints mean in circom cmd-output.
- Check y-Recovery algorithm to see which of the two possible y-Coordinates belong to the given x-Coordinate
- Describe Okoye-Sakurai-Recovery algorithm in thesis. (optional)
- Constraint-Zahlen, Benchmarks (On Sec-pool pcs and on my own.)
- 
