# What I did:
- Finished reading MoonMathManual, made flash cards and learned them
- Read your Paper again (Feasibility study ballot validity with Exponential ElGamal encryption)
- Read your implementation of circuits for proving ballot validity in python
- Installed circom and tried some test programs (I found the following tutorial and puzzles)
    - https://www.rareskills.io/post/circom-tutorial
    - https://github.com/RareSkills/zero-knowledge-puzzles

# Organizational:
- Will there be an interim presentation?
- Structure of the thesis:
    - In general
    - Appendices?
    - What references?

# Problems:
- apperently snarkjs does not support the BLS12-381 elliptic curve. So if i want to use this, I will need to use a different backend such as arkworks or bellman. (I can still use the circom implementation of the circuits though)
- However, both arkworks and bellman look kind of complicated at first glance, so I think I will rather try to implement the circuits with gnark first than try those backends.

- Take a look at this when I get there, noting to worry about now.

# Questions:
## GPZKPs:
- Definition of succinctness varies between the MoonMath Manual and your Paper:
    1. Runtime of verify is polynomial, proof size is polynomial (yours)
    2. Proof size is smaller than witness (MMM) (-> if elliptic curve is choosen, the security parameter is fixed)
    - $\rightsquigarrow$ Which one should I use? (Not relevant for me since Groth16 has constant proof size)
- I thought for quite a while that the prover (SNARK-prove-algorithm) needs to compute a witness for a given instance. However, the prover actually takes both the instance (in case of ballot validity a ballot) and the witness as inputs and just computes the zk-proof showing that there is a witness for the given instance without revealing any information about this witness, right?
- I still have some trouble as to when exactly we are using elliptic curve points as the basis of our computations and when we are not:
    - Are we always using elliptic curve elements? (Thats what I thought after taking a look at your implementation) How does circom take this into account then when using different elliptic curves? (Why does this not change the circuits?)
    - Are we switching to elliptic curves when using exponential elGamal encryption?
    (Or are we only switching to it when actually computing the zk-SNARK? That does not make any sense though.)
    - All in all: What are the elements we are using as inputs for the circuits proving ballot validity? Are those elliptic curve points or are that just elements of the same base field as the base field of elliptic curves?

    - Effectively, we are always using elements form $\mathbb{F}_r$ since elliptic curve points are bult from 2 (or 3) such points. We can implement circuits for calculating with curve points based on the field elements. (The inputs for the SNARK-algorithms are scalar field elements (that then express elliptic curve points))
    - Arithmetic circuits (e.g., EEG) would also work with scalar field elements (elliptic curves are just more secure and better to work with for security purposes)
    - The elliptic curve used for the pairing map of Groth16 is not the same as the elliptic curve used for the arithmetic circuits (e.g., EEG), they just have the same scalar base field.

    - base field: How do I calculate on elliptic curves and how are the points on it defined (often prime order $p$)
    - scalar field: How many points are on the curve (We calculate in the exponent with elements of this group. Therefore, this curve needs to be the basis for the QAP).

## Ballot Validity:
- Extended Paper on GPZKPs for ballot validity:
    - Is FFT Fast Fourier Transform? That seems weird (p. 18, remark) (Yes, this is FFT, is useful for polynomial multiplication)
- In Borda-tournament-style ballots: Do we first compute a point list and then use the method for pointlist borda to assert whether this is a valid ballot? Because I can't find the implementation for asserting borda tournament style ballot validity. (No, BTS ranking ballots are alwas valid (-> the computed pointlist ballots will then also be valid.))
- What is the benefit of condorcet methods compared to ranking methods? Is condorcet not just a very complicated method of defining a ranking with potential ties at arbitrary positions? (This is useful for computations on the ballot matrices later to determine the winner(s) of this method.)
- Can you maybe explain condorcet methods again? (Especially regarding your implementation) I don't think I fully got how they work.

## Arithmetic Circuits:
- What is a "wire"? Are those the inputs/ outputs of circuits? (Are effectively the "lines" connecting the individual gates in the circuit)
- What do I actually need to implement in Circom? All of the circuits you implemented previously in python? (I can use the templates already implemented in circom for the simpler circuits.)

## Other:
- Good introduction to Exponential ElGamal Encryption? (I read the wikipedia entry: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ElGamal_encryption) (Maybe take a look at the question: For what groups is this secure)
    - Differnece between EEG and EG: Decryption yields $g^v$, not the actual ballot $v$. (In most use cases the choice space for $v$ is very limited and therefore we can obtain $v$ quite easily. (using a brute-force approach))
    - I can just read any paper on EG, since EEG is basically the same except for this.
- What do I need to know about pedersen vector commitments? (Similar to EEG but easier)

# Next TODOs:
- Read Kryvos
- Read Condorcet Paper: https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1420.pdf
- Read Helios paper: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/228616821_Electing_a_university_president_using_open-audit_voting_analysis_of_real-world_use_of_Helios
- Implement arithmetic of Curve 25519 in Circom
- Implement curve arithmetic of montgomery Curve in Circom (That is really important)
- Start writing stuff down.
- Always write down where I got something (references) and what I did myself. (Makes final formulation a lot easier)
- Make general structure of thesis (until next meeting)
- Write a section and send it to Nicolas.