# What I did:
- Changed the benchmark script to also output the size of the CRS (and some other minor adjustments)
- Added the option to benchmark just the voting or just the encryption circuits
- Wrote the chapter "Voting Schemes" in the thesis.
- Benchmarked the voting circuits (partially, some problems with condorcet, borda tournament style, majority judgement)

# Questions:
## Ballots:
- In your csv files, there are also entries for pointlist borda with a pointlist length of 10 when there are fewer than 10 candidates? 
According to your definition of pointlis borda that doesn't make sense. 
Am I misunderstanding something or is this a mistake on your part?
- What prevents voters from submitting multiple ballots? (With corresponding ZKPs of ballot validity and correct encryption each)
    - Or If we can have only one ballot per voter (that is somehow coupled to this voters credentials): What prevents an adversary from blocking the vote submitted by an honest voter and submitting a ballot of their choosing (coupled to the same credentials) instead?
    - In the "Fifty shades of Ballot Privacy" paper: I don't understand how the private credentials for each voters are used. 
        - Are they supposed to ensure that each voter can only submit a single ballot? 
        - How can the voters obtain these secret credentials without anyone else getting them? 
        - Or, if the voters don't have these credentials: How can they execute "vote" where they need these credentials?
- There is still something I don't undrstand about the voting authorities proving correct decryption: What is preventing one misbehaving authority from encrypting a desireable final tally, claiming that this ballot is the result of executing the aggregation function and then using it as input for the proof of correct decryption?
    - That would break security of the protocol.
    - Proof of decryption is split into parts for proving the partial decryption of every authority.

## Circom:
- 

## EEG encryption
- 

## Snarkjs
- I sometimes got a weird error when I selected a ptau fiule that was "too small" for the tested circuit:
    - [ERROR] snarkJS: circuit too big for this power of tau ceremony. 52*2 > 2**8
    - Why does snarkjs need a ptau file twice as large as the number of constraints?
    - In this case this is also not a problem since $52\cdot 2 = 104 < 256 = 2^8$.
- In general, I get a js heap out of memory error If I try to compile circuits with about 1.5 million contraints or more.

## Benchmarks:
Comparison Voting Circuit Benchmarks between mine and yours:

|Election type                  |Constraints                                    |Proving times                                                      |CRS size                                   |
|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
|Single-Vote                    |equal                                          |Roughly factor 60 higher in my implementation                      |About factor 2 higher in my implementation |
|Line-Vote                      |equal                                          |Roughly factor 60 higher in my implementation                      |TODO                                       |
|Multi-Vote                     |equal                                          |Roughly factor 60 higher in my implementation                      |TODO                                       |
|MWR                            |Almost equal                                   |Roughly factor 20 higher in my implementation                      |TODO                                       |
|PointlistBorda, 10 Points      |I have about half                              |Roughly factor 3 higher in my implementation                       |TODO                                       |
|PointlistBorda, nCand=nPoints  |I have about half                              |Roughly factor 3 higher in my implementation                       |TODO                                       |
|Majority Judgement, 6 grades   |I have about 6/7                               |Roughly factor 15 higher in my implkementation                     |TODO                                       |
|Majority judgement, nGr=nCand  |Almost equal                                   |Roughly factor 4 higher in my impkementation                       |TODO                                       |
|BTS                            |I have about 2.5(!)                            |Roughly factor 2.5 higher in my implementation                     |TODO                                       |
|condorcet                      |I have linearly, you have quadratically many   |Not comparable (Mine is much better due to other implementation)   |TODO                                       |




## Writing the thesis
- 

# Potential further research
- Potential other groth16 backend: Arkworks

# TODO:
- BordaTournamentStyle use only as many bits as needed by length of ranking (for isGreater tests)
- Single-Vote, Line-Vote, MajorityJudgement (Probably won't make a big difference)
- Test dummy circuit with 301 constraints directly in snarkjs (proving time) (and compare with single wote result of Nicolas)
- Snarkjs: Why $2*52 > 2**8$ ??? Try to find out. (What is the calculation behind this?)
- Choice space $C$ why do we choose vectors as ballots (-> useful for componentwise encryption, homomorhic aggragation of ciphertexts)
    - Encryption componentwise (Change in def. of voting systems)
- Voters need to prove that they KNOW ballot that encrypts to the encrypted ballot (not just that such a ballot exists)!!! (-> Point out this difference in the paper)
    - KNOWLEDGE of a witness is not integral part of any ZKP (ZKPs always prove the truth of a statement, not necessarily the knowledge of a witness)
    - The proof of knowledge is important. Otherwise a malicous voter could just copy the vote of another voter and submit this (without knowing the actual ballot)
    - Paper "How relevant are replay attacks in voting privacy."
    - ZKPS instead of ZPS
- Maybe talk about how we implement abstention (actively (always submit ballot -> inconvenient), passively (don't submit a ballot in abstention -> more secure))
- PBB must be accessible and receive the votes, provide the votes as they are (unchanged)
- ZKPS depends on the choice space (Include choice space in Setup algorithm of ZKPS)
- $\mathcal{S}.\text{Gen}(1^\eta)$ (Dot-Notation)
- VA needs register voters.
- VA needs to sign the final tally of the election.
- VA needs to verify the signature of the individual votes.
- Maybe put choice space $C$ into the CRS for proof generation and verification (-> Includes relevant polynomials)
- "ZPS for a relation R" not just "ZPS" (Take a look at original def. in Groth16 paper (see Mail from Nicolas))

- ElGamal is based on group in which the DDH-Assumption holds.
- Maybe put entire institute adress on front page of the thesis

- In ZKP chapter: Explain Circuit -> R1CS -> QAP (Then QAP as input for groth16)