# What I did:
- Wrote a test setup to make testing elliptic curve algebra in circom easier.
- Fixed the scalar multiplication for montgomery curves. (I made a mistake in the y-Recovery where I would compute the recovered point but always return the non-recovered point.)
- Changed the montgomery ladder so that the multiplier can have at most as many Bits as the parameter says, but does not need to have exactly as many Bits.
    - This was actually quite complicated and required quite a lot of additional constraints. 
    - As a result, my montgomery ladder algorithm for 256 Bits now needs 9269 constraints not the roughly 5500 I had before. (Now, 1205 constraints for 32 bits)
    - Is there maybe an easier way to do this?
- Changed my IfThenElse template to need just one instead of 2 contraints (Wohoo!)
- Implemented a constraint reduced version of the padded montgomery ladder that needs just 5846 constraints now (together with the ifThenElse improvement).
    - The whole scalar Mul now only needs 6182 constraints instead of 9233.
- I saved 1 constraint in the montgomery group law. (Now, I have 34 instead of 35 ;-)(for the affine case))
- Implemented EEG encryption and decryption (where the plaintext is known to be less than some PLAINTEXT_LIMIT) in sage and tested the circom implementation.
- Changed the pointlist to be a parameter of pointListBorda, not an input.
- Changed the montgomery ladder as suggested in "Montgomery ladder..." Section 5.3 to be able to deal with multipliers that are encoded as bits with leading zeros. (in MSB representation)

- Grumpkin Curve: Potential alternative for BN254 curve. (Do research on this!!!) (Only relevant if this is a montgomery curve. Probably does not work as this is probably not a montgomery curve.)
- Do cofactor clearing for randomly generated points (Check that multiplication with 8 does not result in 0-Point (Infty))
- Other alternative BLS12-381 (Research this)

# Questions:
## Ballots:
- Does it make sense to declare the ballots in the different election types as separate "classes"?
- In the csv files you provided in multi-vote: What does this nBits mean? And why does it scale up? (This is the maximum number of bits of the sum of all entries, can be calculated from the other parameters.)

## Circom:
- I implemented a switchCase template which needs one constraint less than the corresponding selectEnabled. However, when I tried replacing the selectEnabled in the montgomery scalar mul, the number of constraints overall went slightly up, not down.
Why does this happen? (From 6182 to 6186) (Write down where exactly this happened)
    - TODO!!!
- In Circom: Can a signal be input but also private? I think yes, but I am a little confused.
- How do I implement the encryption of a ballot in Circom? (What is input, what is not, waht is private, what public?)
- E.g., randomness in encryption (input but also private) can be generated in the witness generation process.

## EEG encryption
- In the EEG encryption:
    - I can't limit the number of bits in the randomness, right?
    - I still don't quite understand what it means that the randomness is a witness but also an input of the encryption circuit: 
    Under which conditions do I have to provide this randomness and when will it be generated in the witness generation process? (Will be provided as private input and not generated.) (Talk about the diferent definitions of witness (Circom vs. Literature) in my thesis)
- Do I also need to implement the complete combined Encryption and Voting circuits in Circom?
- How do I assert that the encryption of a ballot is actually correct? (In Circom)
- -> Can you take a look at my implementation of the combined voting and enc circuit for SingleVota and tell me whether I have the right approach?
    - Maybe just do encryption in the circuit and output the encrypted ballot. Together with ballot validity this requires the ballot to be from the correct choice space and the encrypted ballot to belong to the corresponding plain ballot.
- I don't know whether we already talked about this, but: What is the benefit of using ExpElGamal over normal ElGamal? 
    - Relevant for semihomomorphic additive properties of encrypted ballots.
    - Is it because our group elements are elliptic curve points and the ballot entries are not.
    - Does this mean, we need an invertible mapping from the ballot entries to curve points and we use $g^b$ for a generator $g$ and a ballot $b$ here?

## Snarkjs
- How do I create the actual ZKPs for the circuits in Circom? What do I need to do this for?
- I started reading up on snarkjs. Here, I am not sure how I can generate ptau (powers of tau) files or whether I can use the ones provided here: (I can use one of the provided ones)
    - https://github.com/iden3/snarkjs
    - Also, this is really complicated and I don't understand most of the steps taken. Could we maybe go over the instructions together?
        - Many parties should contribute randomness. Tau can only be computed if all of them work together.
    - The powers of tau files also tend to be rather large (e.g., 19GB for 16 million constraints (which is I believa a conservative estimate of how much I will need at most))

## Writing the thesis
- I am having some trouble getting the tex-template I am supposed to use to work. (I think it is working now though)
- In the guidelines for Bachelor Thesis of the SEC it is stated that for the final presentation, I should "follow the advice for good presentations from [your] seminars" If I did not attend one of those, I should ask you about this. 
I am hereby doing this.
    - Introduction to my thesis
    - Present benchmarks
    - Should be accessible to everyone (Not just to people familiar with the matter)
- Did you use some special program for the illustrations of the circuits in your paper? (Might I know what program?)
    - TikZ (library "tikz")
    - I will probably just use Drawio

# Potential further research
- Lucas ladder?
- Twisted edwards curves?
- 