# What I did:
- Changed Borda Tournament Style voting circuit to use only as many bits as needed ($log(n)$) to represent a ranking of a length $n$. Now I need significantly less constraints than you did ;-).
- Fixed the JS heap out of memory error (Previously, JS could only use 2gb of RAM, I increased this to allow JS to use the full 16gb available on the system.)

- Mentioned that we use component-wise encryption in the thesis (I didn't change the graphics for this but just defined that we denote the componentwise encryption of a vector or a matrix the same as the encryption of a single value) (I thought it would get unnecessarily complicated otherwise.)
- Added that we assume, that the PBB is "accessible" by the voters and the VA at any time. (-> Because of DDOS attacks, etc.)
- Added a section about the integrity of ballots (-> digital signatures)
- Added separate definition of relations and changed ZPS definition accordingly to use said definition.
- Added a paragraph talking about explicit vs. silent abstention (and why we use explicit abstention)
- Wrote chapter 3, talking about ElGamal Encryption, Exponential ElGamal and Homomorphic Encryption
- Wrote Chapter 4, introducing Montgomery Curves, the Montgomery Ladder and $Y$-Recovery.

- Min-Max Number of candidates possible (capped at $300$):
    |Election type                      |Voting    |Encryption|Combined   |
    |-----------------------------------|----------|----------|-----------|
    |Single-Vote                        |$1-300$   |$1-300$   |$1-300$    |
    |Line-Vote                          |$1-300$   |$1-300$   |$1-300$    |
    |Multi-Vote                         |$1-300$   |$1-300$   |$1-300$    |
    |MWR                                |$3-300$   |$3-300$   |$3-300$    |
    |Pointlist-Borda, 10 Points         |$10-300$  |$10-300$  |$10-300$   |
    |Pointlist-Borda, nCand=nPoints     |$1-300$   |$1-300$   |$1-300$    |
    |Majority Judgement, 6 Grades       |$1-300$   |$1-95$    |$1-95$     |
    |Majority Judgement, nGrades=nCand  |$1-300$   |$1-24$    |$1-24$     |
    |BTS                                |$1-300$   |$1-300$   |$1-300$    |
    |Condorcet                          |$1-300$   |$1-24$    |$1-24$     |

# Questions:
- How quickly can I get the "4.0 Bestätigung" for the bachelor thesis? It would be great if I could get this before the 15.05 because this is the deadline for starting with the masters next semester. 
Es is nicht super schlimm, wenn nicht, ich kann immer noch drei Mastermodule vorziehen und wenn ich eines als Vertiefungslinie mache, muss ich da nächstes Semester keine Prüfung anmelden, ist also alles auch möglich. (Nur meine FÜSQ könnte ich mir dann nicht anrechnen lassen)

## Circuit notation:
- The suggested circuit you send yesterday is literally the same I sant at the very start if we consider the circom Witness Generation as input.
- I think my representation is fien because I consistently have the inputs of a circuit on the left side and the outputs on the right side. (Therefore, the circuit I sent should be unambigous)
- I made some alternative visual changes to circuits, can you maybe take a look at what is best?

## Ballots:
- 

## Circom:
- 

## EEG encryption
- 

## GPZKPs:
- I know I wrote something different in my mail yesterday, but I still think I should not make the distinction between Instance and Witness in algebraic circuits, R1CS and QAPs and only introduce this later in the actual GPZKPs. I don't see why it is necessary before.
- I am currently writing the chapter on GPZKPs. I structured this as follows:
    1. Algebraic circuits
    2. R1CS
    3. QAP
    4. Groth16 SNARK
    In the MoonMathManual, they introduce the distinction between Instance and witness rather early. My question is: Is it not enouch to split into Instance and Witness after introducing QAPs? I mean, up to and including QAPs, there is no fundamental difference between Instance and Witness.

## Snarkjs
- 

## Benchmarks:
Comparison Voting Circuit Benchmarks between mine and yours:

## Writing the thesis
- I had some problems finding a definition of the projective short weierstrass group law that wasn't one huge algorithm but had several cases 
(e.g., for adding infinity, adding the inverse points, chord rule, tangent rule). Do you know where I can find this?
- For most of the topics I introduce in the thesis, I want to present the circuits from my implementation. For this to make sense, I need to introduce algebraic circuits relatively early on.
Should I maybe move the GPZKP chapter up because of this? Or should I introduce algebraic circuits seperately at the start and still do GPZKPs later on?
- In the chapter to elliptic curves. I started with Short Weierstrass elliptic curves and then introduced Montgomery curves later.
However, the definitions are quite repetitive. Should I maybe skip the Short Weierstrass form.
This is not really part of my implementation (other than in SageMath since sage math only supports short weierstrass curves and I need to transform to and from montgomery)
- Often I am not sure where to put the motivation for a chapter. Should I put this at the end of the chapter just before it or at the start of the chapter itself? (And how do I do this within a chapter? At the end of the previous section or the start of the current one?)
    - For sections at the end of the last one and for chapters at the start of the current one (if it isbetter the other way, that is fine too)


# Potential further research
- Potential other groth16 backend: Arkworks

# TODO: 
- Find out why CRS sizes in snarkjs are so much less than in libsnark (in the implementation of Nicolas)
- Mention that finite field should be suffieciently large (e.g., not $\mathbb{F}_2$)
- Instance-Witness decomposition: Say that the instance-witness characteristic of intermediate values is a little more complicated (maybe make example)
    - Make everything witness by default and then declare some signals that need to be public as instance

- Test dummy circuit with 301 constraints directly in snarkjs (proving time) (and compare with single vote result of Nicolas)
- Snarkjs: Why $2*52 > 2**8$ ??? Try to find out. (What is the calculation behind this?)

- Voters need to prove that they KNOW ballot that encrypts to the encrypted ballot (not just that such a ballot exists)!!! (-> Point out this difference in the paper)
    - KNOWLEDGE of a witness is not integral part of any ZKP (ZKPs always prove the truth of a statement, not necessarily the knowledge of a witness)
    - The proof of knowledge is important. Otherwise a malicous voter could just copy the vote of another voter and submit this (without knowing the actual ballot)
    - Paper "How relevant are replay attacks in voting privacy."
    - ZKPS instead of ZPS
- Also upload thesis PDF in git-repo

- Maybe put entire institute adress on front page of the thesis

- In ZKP chapter: Explain Circuit -> R1CS -> QAP (Then QAP as input for groth16)