# What I did:
- Changed the voting circuits to the same format as the one you used (Assert that the ballot is from the choice space and, encrypt the ballot and give the encrypted ballot as an output)
    - I changed this back later because it was really hard to test the implementation otherwise. (This needs the excact same number of constraints but requires me to compute the ballot in sage beforehand)
- Included Cofactor clearing in the generation of curve points (So that they are always part of the subgroup of the elliptic curve)
- Fixed an error in the conversion from Projective to montgomery (in sage) (Infinity was converted wrongly. This took me quite a while to find)
- Implemented all of the election types in sage to be able to compute random ballots and generate the input for the benchmarks.
- Fixed a mistake in the circom implementation of majority voting: Previously I reused the assertion circuit for single vote which allowed voters to not give a candidate any grade.
- Fixed an error in my condorcet voting method (Literally two symbols but it took me an hour to find ;-))
- Wrote a benchmark.sh:
    - Parameters:
        1. election type
        2. Number of bits
        3. Number of Votes/Cand
        4. Election type specific parameters
    - Steps:
        1. Generate a circom test file (basically only includes the main component with assert<ElectionType> template)
        2. Generate a sage test file which outputs a ballot in <electionType> with the specified type and dimensions as well as all the other inputs (randomnesses, generator, public key, encrypted ballot) for the generated circom test file (in json format).
        3. Compile the generated circom test file and generatte the witness with the given input (using the genCircom.sh script I wrote earlier)
        4. Prepares the proof by generating a zkey file from a provided powersOfTau file
            - Uses a new script prepareProof.sh
            - Currently makes one very much not random contribution to the zkey file (I also implemented the option of using a random beacon but I have not tested this yet.)
            - Question: Can I remove the contribution to the zkey file? (This takes up a lot of time in the proof preparation)
            - I also implemented a version where the smallest possible ptau file is chosen but that did not improve performance at all.
                - This does however reduce the size of the zkey files generated.
        5. Create the proof using a new script createProof.sh
            - This basically just calls the snarkjs groth16 prove command
        6. Varifies the proof using a new script verifyProof.sh
            - This basically just calls the snarkjs groth16 verify command
        7. Export the constraints and proof times to two csv files:
            1. times/<electionType>.csv. Each row has
                - The input parameters of the benchmark.sh script as an identifier (except for the electionType)
                - proof preparation, creation and verification times
            2. constraints/<electionType>.csv Each row has
                - The input parameters of the benchmark.sh script as an identifier (except for the electionType)
                - non-linear, linear and total constraints

- Wrote a testConfig.json file
- Wrote a testSuite.py file
    - Uses the testConfig.json file to generate all of the individual test cases (and the appropriate benchmark.sh commands)
- Wrote a benchmarkTestSuite.py file which uses the testSuite.json file generated by testSuite.py to run all of the individual test cases.

# Questions:
## Ballots:
- In your csv files, there are also entries for pointlist borda with a pointlist length of 10 when there are fewer than te ncandidates? According to your definition of pointlis borda that doesn't make sense. Am I misunderstanding something or is this a mistake on your part?

## Circom:
- 

## EEG encryption
- 

## Snarkjs
- As we have already discussed, Circom lists linear and non-linear constraints. However, snarkjs just knows one total number of constraints (both of the them added together). 
    - Which of those numbers should I compare to the number of constraints you had? 
    - With just the non-linear constraints my implementation has typically slightly less constraints than your implementation. 
    - With both numbers together however, My implementation has way more constraints than yours
    - So far, I just recorded both of them as well as the total number of constraints
- When checking the times needed to generate the proofs, I have three different times:
    1. The proof preparation times (These are typically really long (over 10 minutes for 100 ballot entries in single vote). However, they only depend on the circuit (the r1cs), not the actual input. They then generate a zkey file unique for the circuit). Are they relevant for me?
        - A proof for some specified circuit alwas requires a very large large zkey file (ca 700 MB for 100 votes in single vote) (-> This is probably the complete CRS for the circuit)
        - Can I somehow remove the need for the zkey file? I don't think so but it is really huge and generating it takes a very long time. (see above)
        - Also, it takes especially long because I need to contribute to the zkey. If I would not contribute to the zkey I would probably save about half the time.
        - Can I maybe just pregenerate them since they don't depend on the specific inputs and save them somewhere.
        - I noticed (fom ypur paper) that you had these huge CRSs files as well. Isn't that problematic in practice?
        - In a real worls application: How would we avoid these really long wait times. And, for larger elections: How would we avoid the need for really large zkey files?
    2. The actual proof times. Are those the same as the proof times in your work?

## Benchmarks:
- When can I get access to the computers in the SEC-pool?
    - I think the test setup is almost ready now and so far I only know that it works on my machine (so I think it will take quite some time get it to work on another machine) :
        - (Ideally rewriting most of the scripts so that I don't need to py anything on PATH or PYTHONPATH)
        - Installing all of the required software (Circom, snarkjs, sage, ...)


## Writing the thesis
- I am currently trying to develop a consistent format for the circuits I use:
    - Can you take a look at an example (for the inversion circuit)?
    - Should I label the signals used in the circuits the same way as in Circom or should I use a more mathematical notation (e.g., in, inv vs. $y$, $y^{-1}$ in the inversion circuit?)
- If the voting authority can decrypt the final tally of an election (after e.g., adding all the encrypted votes), can't they also decrypt the individual votes? What is preventing them from doing so?
- What can I cite if I want to use the definitions for encryption schemes presented in the IMC lecture in my thesis? (Or should I either avoid using these definitions or explain them in detail?)
- Are there any standard formalizations of voting systems or can come up with my own one?
- I had the following Idea for introducing voting systems in my thesis:
    1. Introduce them in a very basic form (without ZKPs)
    2. Modify that definition to include ZKPs (but ZKPs on a high level)
    3. Modify that definition again to include GPZKPs in their complete form
    - Is this a good approach or shpould I maybe introduce GPZKPs seperately and leave out step 2?
    - Or should I only do Step 3 (I think it is valid to do Step 1 seperately since ZKPs are not the only way to build (secure) voting systems)
# Potential further research
- 