# What I did:
## Thesis:
- Finished Results section
- Wrote Conclusion
- Wrote Future Work
- Wrote English Abstract
- Wrote Introduction

- Go through all af Nicolas notes on the sections and show how I changed things:
    - Introduced rules for the derivation of r1cs-constraints from ciruits (show and ask Nicolas opinion)
    - What do you mean by the comment on Page $34$ (see handwritten notes)
    - Is it fine if I leave "an assignment to R1CS" on page $39$?
    - Wrote a theorem to state that circuit satisfiability implies R1CS and QAP satisfieability (since intermediate signals are only introduced in the flattening process in my thesis)
    - Changed footnote $13$ on page $50$ slightly (Is this ok now?)
- 

## Implementation
- Made concept for Twisted Edwards PPFExp with arbitrary base and implemented this in Circom (Base $5$ is optimal regarding constraint count)

# Questions:
- Intermediate signals in circuits: Yes this makes sense but it would be a lot of work to rewrite the corresponding parts. Should I still do it?
- Do I have to do an example with intermediate signals? I explained where they come from in the R1CS section now and making a complete example would clutter the section even more.
- For the formal definition of the zk-Property: Can I cite something here? (What can I cite?) Or where can I extract this from? In the definition of Groth16, this uses the verify algorithm which I did not introduce so far. Should I do that?
- What is wrong with the spelling of "adventageuos"?
- What is the original paper for the montgomery ladder? I could not find that. -> Original Montgomery Paper (Speeding, ...)
- Note on page 71: Why "coordinates" instead of curves? I am replacing the Montgomery curve with the twisted Edwards curve everywhere, not just some coordinates in some parts of the circuits.
- Note on page 75: $R_C$ is a relation and therefore always produces output $0$ or $1$. This is not an algebraic function of circuit.
- Note on page 88: "mention how ties are encrypted". I already do that in the $r_{compute\text{-}Condorcet(cand)}(r)$ algorithm. Is this enough or what else should I do?
- Note on page 90: I can't express Majority Judgment as Single-Vote since we allow abstention in Single-Vote but not in Majority-Judgment
- Note on page 93: There were still some commits on the libsnark github last year. Should I still say that it is not being maintained?
- Note on page 98: Why is it unclear how ballot validity is ensured?
- Note on page 101: Why does it matter whether SageMath is secure if it is only used to generate the inputs for the circuits? (Side-channel attacks?)

## Elliptic Curves:
- 

## Ballots:
- 

## Circom:
- 

## EEG encryption
- 

## GPZKPs:
- 

## Snarkjs
- What does the powersOf Tau file actually contain and how do we generate the rest of the CRS. Whcih party nown (what part of) the simulation trapdoor. (I.e., waht is known to the party generating tha powers of tau file and what is known to the party generating the zkey file?) -> Especially, how could the party generating the zkey file create the $g^{\text{Term with target polynomial}}$ values? (Have you found out anything about this?)

## Benchmarks:
- How should I explain why my proving times are very fluctuating whereas yours are very smooth in the thesis? -> Is based on benchmark system. Huber et. al used Dummy circuits with a dummy number of constraints.

## Writing the thesis
- Who should I put as author of git repositories? So far I just used the top three contributors. -> no clear rule. Use name of git repositories as authors.
Github has built in citation support (google it, use that)


# Potential further research

# TODO: 
- Make proof of groth16 correctness (-> perfect completeness) (show that a proof generated honestly will be verified.) (At least cite proof of zero-knowledge and soundness)
    - zero-knowledge kind of depends on simulation algorithm/ simulation trapdoor which I don't include. (-> cite proof or include simulation algorithm)
    - Cite original groth16 paper (on the size of pairing ...) (-> perfect zero-knowledge, computational knowledge and computational knowledge soundness)


- Also upload thesis PDF in git-repo

- Theorem to state, that an assignment satisfies a R1CS, QAP and Circuit in exactly the same cases (satisfies all if satisfies one)
- Intermediate signals are everything except input and output signals. State this clearly also for R1Cs, QAP, circuits, algebraic functions.
- Make three-fac example for intermediate signals, and later use this for cirom witness generation example (in addition to division)
- State that division circuit may be used deep inside other circuits which is why we can't just compute $\frac{x}{y}$ outside of the circuit and provida it as an additional input.
- Provide inputs for $Exp$, $PPFExp$ as bitstrings directly rather than using a circuit to compute this. (At least make a footnote that this would be benefitial and how many constraints could be saved this way.)

- IMPORTANT: Elliptic curves: Are not necessarily cyclic. Say that for the curves we use here, the ddh assumption holds (but not necessarily in general).

- Make xDbl, xAdd proofs in appendix

- If basepoint for exponentiation is never the point at infinity, we can simplify a lot of stuff (quotient map, less additional requirements for okeya-sakurai). Make footnote for this.
- Maybe explain better why using the montgomery ladder is better than stupid double and add method because pseudooperation use significantly less constraints than full motgomery group law.
Twisted Edwards naive group law ist still worse than Montgomery pseudooperations.
- In our voting schemes: Cite $C\emptyset C\emptyset$ paper for security of the used curves. (Montgomery curve and isomorphic Twisted Edwards curve)

- Circom has additional benefit of being a current software that is till being maintained whereas libsnark is no longer maintained.
- In Circom example: State what ballot validity for Three-Vot means? Maybe make additional example where we assert that the outputs are all $0$ for ballot validity.

- Cut the statement that SageMath is a good choice for encrypting ballots.
- Maybe use Macro file for consistnet variable naming, etc.

- Maybe plot constraint count against CRS sizes to find out why Twisted Edwards CRS sizes are so much less than montgomery CRS sizes. (Maybe, if there is time)
- Maybe snarkjs uses additional integrity checks for CRS sizes (-> this might cause the offset in proving times, CRS generation times)

# Presentation:
- Make when the BA are handed in
- 30 min + Questions
- Topic: 
    - Twisted Edwards Curves benefitial
    - Use nice pictures
- Structure:
    - What do we want to do?
    - How do we do this?
    - What is our contribution

# Thesis Layout:
- Keine Ringbindung

# TODO:
- DONE: Make it clear that ballot validity is equivalent to the outputs $(0,0,0,0)$ for the $x\text{-}vot$ circuit.
- DONE: Make QAP example with tuple instead of brackets as in definition.
- DONE: Theorem name satisfiability equality
- DONE: Mention that we could use intermediate signals in Circuit definition (but we abtract away from this in our work)
- DONE: Make Succinctnes definition a bit more formal (both prove size is polyonomial in security parameter and verfifier runs polynomially in security parameter)
- DONE(But send Nicolas to double check): Introduce zk-property of ZKPs in Groth16 SNARKs formally, use $Sim$ alg. as black box (jut explain what it does). Mention that there are multiple definitions of zk and this is the one we use for our work since we use this ZPS.
- DONE: Groth16 soundness property holds only for polynomially bound provers (Note that this is not a requirement but rather a necessity.)
- DONE: Make tuple definition of QAPs consisten throughout the thesis
- DONE: Make reference to Groth16 for fulfillment of zk, succinctness and argument properties. (Are shown in groth16)
- DONE: BN254 is NOT a Montgomery curve (add that, not just that it is a Short Weierstrass curve)

- DONE: Add Circuit for Montgomery Group law (with conversions to and from affine representation)
- DONE: Remove projective group law algorithms, say that we use affine coordinates and transform to and back from these. Cite bernstein for correctness of xAdd and xDbl.
- DONE: Move Transformation between projective and Affine coordinates between projective point def and projective montgomery curve def.
- DONE: Cite original paper for Montgomery ladder (-> Exponentiation for Montgomery curves.) -> Cite Speeding, ... from Montgomery
- (Maybe make comparison between Duoble-and-add and Montgomery ladder with pseudo operation explicit (constraint comparison))
- DONE: It is straightforward to switch from Montgomery to Twisted Edwads Representation in implementation. -> Write this in section about Isomorphism of Twisted Edwards awnd Montgomery Curves

- DONE: Make overview over constraint counts in the different election types (-> e.g., with table in the input paramenters (e.g., $cand, grades, \dots$)

- DONE: Mention that libsnark is not really maintained anymore (no new features, doesn't support recent curves, proof systems, optimizations, etc.)
- DONE: In Software chapter: specify how we sould use the implementation to assert membership of the choice space.
- DONE: Cite more references on powers of tau (Powers to the people, Scalable multi party computation for zk-SNARK Parameters)
- DONE: Note that we used benchmark scripts in Sage to generatie random ballots, randomnesses, generators, powers of these, etc.

- DONE: Chaum-Pedersen proofs verify that the sum of all entries in one ballot is a bit.
- DONE: PPEEG is a more efficient variant of computing EEG ciphertexts when precomputed powers of some group elements are provided. (Mention in introduction)
- DONE: Mention in Introduction that Change from Montgomery to TE curve does not affect curve choice (since isomorphic).
- DONE: Mention results in introduction briefly. (We are the greatest ;-))
- DONE: Give a short overview of the structure of the thesis in (unnumbered) subsection of introduction

- DONE: Maybe scale up benchmark figures (especially for encryption)
- Maybe make individual data points smaller in results graphs
- For git repositiories, use date of last commit for referencing (or something (maybe))
- DONE: CRS can be generated before the election by election organizers, therefore, CRS generation times don't matter
- DONE: Maybe mention what individual points in result diagrams are, and that we plot regression polynomials
- DONE: Mention that proof sizes are constant (and what they are) (In results section)
- DONE: Maybe make examples of typical realistic elections (how our implementation performs here) (In conclusion)

- DONE: PLONK, FFLONK need trusted setup just no circuit specific trusted setup
- DONE: Future work icicle (see Mail)
- DONE: SageMath is not optimal choice for encryption (might be succeptible to side-channel attacks, etc.) but useful for curve arithmetic.

- Abstract: 
    - DONE: The "use" of secure e-voting schemes is undisputed
    - DONE: voters are resource-constrained, therefore SNARKs are a good choice
    - DONE: EEG is a common choice for encryption in e-voting
    - DONE: Remove citation of Kryvos from Abstract (HKK+22)
    - DONE: PPEEG is a variant of computing EEG ciphertexts (see above)
    - DONE: Find out whether german abstract is equivalent to english one or needs to be more.

- Priorities for appendix:
    - DONE: Finish utility circuits
    - DONE: Twisted Edwards PPEEG with arb. exponent.
    - DONE: Circuit list/ table (see appendix)
    - DONE: Additional Benchmarks (Groth16)
    - DONE: Reproducibility
    - Move R1CS, QAP example to appendix
    - DONE: Twisted Edwards square-and-multiply comparison with Montgomery ladder
    - DONE: (Montgomery Curves constraint comparison Montgomery Ladder vs. Square-and-Multiply (with full Montgomery group law))
    - Montgomery curves PPFexp with pseudo-operations, show why this is not trivially possible
    - Often used symbols, make use consistent