# What I did:
## Thesis:
- Introduced Precomputed Powers EEG and argued that it is secure if EEG is secure
- Introduced Twisted Edwards Curves
- Reworked "sufficiently large" (Worked with addition and characterisitc of the field $\mathbb{F}$)
- Made footnote numbering continuous throughout the thesis
- Wrote the chapters "ourVoting Schemes" and "Software"
- Started working on "Results", made better plot configuration and plotting script



## Implementation:
- 

# Questions:
- 

## Elliptic Curves:
- I had some problems trying to prove the correctness of the montgomery pseudooperations (Proving that they work as intended via equivalence of e.g., $xDbl(x(P))$ and $x(P^2)$) (same thing for $xAdd$. Can you maybe take a look at this or do you know a paper I can cite for this proof?)

## Ballots:
- 

## Circom:
- 

## EEG encryption
- 

## GPZKPs:
- Groth16 Malleability: From the website ypou sent me, it seems as if this is only a problem if we have some instance that is not involved in any constraints. (Because then, we can change the instance without needing to change the witness and still have a valid proof)
However, this is not the case for our circuits, right? Any instance in our circuits is invlolved in the constraints.

## Snarkjs
- What does the powersOf Twu file actually contain and how do we generate the rest of the CRS. Whcih party nown (what part of) the simulation trapdoor. (I.e., waht is known to the party generating tha powers of tau file and what is known to the party generating the zkey file?)

## Benchmarks:
- How should I explain why my proving times are very fluctuating whereas yours are very smooth in the thesis? -> Is based on benchmark system. Huber et. al used Dummy circuits with a dummy number of constraints.
- Should I plot an "Ausgleichgerade" for my proving time benchmarks?

## Writing the thesis
- Who should I put as author of git repositories? So far I just used the top three contributors. -> no clear rule. Use name of git repositories as authors.
Github has built in citation support (google it, use that)


# Potential further research
- Potential other groth16 backend: Arkworks

# TODO: 
- Make proof of groth16 correctness (-> perfect completeness) (show that a proof generated honestly will be verified.) (At least cite proof of zero-knowledge and soundness)
    - zero-knowledge kind of depends on simulation algorithm/ simulation trapdoor which I don't include. (-> cite proof or include simulation algorithm)
    - Cite original groth16 paper (on the size of pairing ...) (-> perfect zero-knowledge, computational knowledge and computational knowledge soundness)


- Find out why CRS sizes in snarkjs are so much less than in libsnark (in the implementation of Nicolas)

- Test dummy circuit with 301 constraints directly in snarkjs (proving time) (and compare with single vote result of Nicolas)
- Snarkjs: Why $2*52 > 2**8$ ??? Try to find out. (What is the calculation behind this?)


- Also upload thesis PDF in git-repo

- Maybe put entire institute adress on front page of the thesis

- Theorem to state, that an assignment satisfies a R1CS, QAP and Circuit in exactly the same cases (satisfies all if satisfies one)
- Intermediate signals are everything except input and output signals. State this clearly also for R1Cs, QAP, circuits, algebraic functions.
- Make three-fac example for intermediate signals, and later use this for cirom witness generation example (in addition to division)
- State that division circuit may be used deep inside other circuits which is why we can't just compute $\frac{x}{y}$ outside of the circuit and provida it as an additional input.
- Provide inputs for $Exp$, $PPFExp$ as bitstrings directly rather than using a circuit to compute this. (At least make a footnote that this would be benefitial and how many constraints could be saved this way.)

- IMPORTANT: Elliptic curves: Are not necessarily cyclic. Say that for the curves we use here, the ddh assumption holds (but not necessarily in general).

- Make xDbl, xAdd proofs in appendix

- If basepoint for exponentiation is never the point at infinity, we can simplify a lot of stuff (quotient map, less additional requirements for okeya-sakurai). Make footnote for this.
- Maybe explain better why using the montgomery ladder is better than stupid double and add method because pseudooperation use significantly less constraints than full motgomery group law.
Twisted Edwards naive group law ist still worse than Montgomery pseudooperations.
- In our voting schemes: Cite $C\emptyset C\emptyset$ paper for security of the used curves. (Montgomery curve and isomorphic Twisted Edwards curve)

- Circom has additional benefit of being a current software that is till being maintaines whereas libsnark is no longer maintained.
- In Circom example: State what ballot validity for Three-Vot means? Maybe make additional example where we assert that the outputs are all $0$ for ballot validity.

- Cut the statement that SageMath is a good choice for encrypting ballots.
- Maybe use Macro file for consistnet variable naming, etc.

- Maybe plot constraint count against CRS sizes to find out why Twisted Edwards CRS sizes are so much less than montgomery CRS sizes. (Maybe, if there is time)
- Maybe snarkjs uses additional integrity checks for CRS sizes (-> this might cause the offset in proving times, CRS generation times)

# Presentation:
- Make when the BA are handed in
- 30 min + Questions
- Topic: 
    - Twisted Edwards Curves benefitial
    - Use nice pictures
- Structure:
    - What do we want to do?
    - How do we do this?
    - What is our contribution

# Thesis Layout:
- Keine Ringbindung
- 