# What I did:
## Thesis:
- Made Choice Space part of the definition of the ZKP system even when ZKPs haven't been introduced formally yet.
- Changed Choice space definition so that a choice space can only consist of vectors/ matrices of the same size.
- Added "sufficiently large" (finite field) to the choice space definition and explained what this means in a footnote.
- In ElGamal encryption: Extended the notes for why the discrete log problem does not apply to exponential elGamal encryption (-> entries in aggregated tally have small range of values)
- Made Montogemry Ladder, Okeya-Sakurai-Y-Recovery and $Y$ recovery to theorems instead of definitions. (Do I still need to cite something as to why my $Y$-Recovery Algorithm works? I think I explained this decently well.)
- Changed the Instance-Witness decomposition definition to include intermediate signals (that are not input or output) (And changed the name to decomposition relation)
- Wrote a subsection about constant signals in circuits and circuit modularity. Here, the equivalence to algebraic relations is a bit ugly: If an assignment does not satisfy a circuit, I can only express this by tha computation of the corresponding algebraic function resulting in an error. If an assignment satisfies a circuit, the corresponding algebraic function can be computet withoout errors but still does not return anything.
- Wrote the subsection on Groth16 SNARKs

## Implementation:
- Implemented group exponentiation with twisted Edwards curves when powers of the point $P$ to exponentiate are given ($[P, P^2, P^4, P^8, \dots, P^{2^{n-1}}]$). (that is very efficient, requiring only $9n-4$ constraints for $n$ Bits. (e.g., $2291$ constraints for $255$ bits comapred to $4913$ with the montgomery ladder))
    - Thanks again for that idea, it is truly genius. :-)
- Integrated the Twisted Edwards implementation into El Gamal Encryption and the Ballot Validity Enc circuit.
- Completely reworked the sage implementation of elliptic curves and added twisted edwards curves
- Integrated the new Sage implementation of elliptic curves with the exponentail ElGamal implementation
- Completely reworked the benchmarking setup and transitioned from shell to python. Now I need just need to define the assertVoting circuits in the different election types, the benchmarking script assembels the test circuit correctly depending on the configuration (election type, elliptic curve, choice space specification, ...)

# Questions:
- 

## Elliptic Curves:
- Implementing group exponentiation $P^m$ with precomputed powers of $P$ is difficult to do with Montgomery pseudooperations since the operation xAdd requires $P_1=P^k, P_2=P^l$ and $P_1-P_2$. I don't know what $P_1-P_2=P^{l-k}$ is here. (It is possible (see xournal, but it barely saves any constraints))
- I had some problems trying to prove the correctness of the montgomery pseudooperations (Proving that they work as intended via equivalence of e.g., $xDbl(x(P))$ and $x(P^2)$) (same thing for $xAdd$. Can you maybe take a look at this or do you know a paper I can cite for this proof?)

## Ballots:
- 

## Circom:
- 

## EEG encryption
- 

## GPZKPs:
- Groth16 Malleability: From the website ypou sent me, it seems as if this is only a problem if we have some instance that is not involved in any constraints. (Because then, we can change the instance without needing to change the witnessa nd still have a valid proof)
However, this is not the case for our circuits, right? Any instance in our circuits is invlolved in the constraints.

## Snarkjs
- 

## Benchmarks:
Comparison Voting Circuit Benchmarks between mine and yours:

## Writing the thesis
- 


# Potential further research
- Potential other groth16 backend: Arkworks

# TODO: 
- Find out why CRS sizes in snarkjs are so much less than in libsnark (in the implementation of Nicolas)

- Test dummy circuit with 301 constraints directly in snarkjs (proving time) (and compare with single vote result of Nicolas)
- Snarkjs: Why $2*52 > 2**8$ ??? Try to find out. (What is the calculation behind this?)

- Also upload thesis PDF in git-repo

- Maybe put entire institute adress on front page of the thesis