# What I did:
- Wrote a test setup to make testing elliptic curve algebra in circom easier.
- Fixed the scalar multiplication for montgomery curves. (I made a mistake in the y-Recovery where I would compute the recovered point but always return the non-recovered point.)
- Changed the montgomery ladder so that the multiplier can have at most as many Bits as the parameter says, but does not need to have exactly as many Bits.
    - This was actually quite complicated and required quite a lot of additional constraints. 
    - As a result, my montgomery ladder algorithm for 256 Bits now needs 9269 constraints not the roughly 5500 I had before. (Now, 1205 constraints for 32 bits)
    - Is there maybe an easier way to do this?
- Changed my IfThenElse template to need just one instead of 2 contraints (Wohoo!)
- Implemented a constraint reduced version of the padded montgomery ladder that needs just 5846 constraints now (together with the ifThenElse improvement).
    - The whole scalar Mul now only needs 6182 constraints instead of 9233.
- I saved 1 constraint in the montgomery group law. (Now, I have 34 instead of 35 ;-)(for the affine case))
- Implemented EEG encryption and decryption (where the plaintext is known to be less than some PLAINTEXT_LIMIT) in sage and tested the circom implementation.
- Changed the pointlist to be a parameter of pointListBorda, not an input.
- Changed the montgomery ladder as suggested in "Montgomery ladder..." Section 5.3 to be able to deal with multipliers that are encoded as bits with leading zeros. (in MSB representation)

# Questions:
## Ballots:
- Does it make sense to declare the ballots in the different election types as separate "classes"?
- In the csv files you provided in multi-vote: What does this nBits mean? And why does it scale up?

## Circom:
- I implemented a switchCase template which needs one constraint less than the corresponding selectEnabled. However, when I tried replacing the selectEnabled in the montgomery scalar mul, the number of constraints overall went slightly up, not down.
Why does this happen? (From 6182 to 6186)
- In Circom: Can a signal be input but also private? I think yes, but I am a little confused.
- How do I implement the encryption of a ballot in Circom? (What is input, what is not, waht is private, what public?)

## EEG encryption
- In the EEG encryption:
    - I can't limit the number of bits in the randomness, right?
    - I still don't quite understand what it means that the randomness is a witness but also an input of the encryption circuit: 
    Under which conditions do I have to provide this randomness and when will it be generated in the witness generation process?
- Do I also need to implement the complete combined Encryption and Voting circuits in Circom?
- How do I assert that the encryption of a ballot is actually correct? (In Circom)
- -> Can you take a look at my implementation of the combined voting and enc circuit for SingleVota and tell me whether I have the right approach?
- I don't know whether we already talked about this, but: What is the benefit of using ExpElGamal over normal ElGamal? 
    - Is it because our group elements are elliptic curve points and the ballot entries are not.
    - Does this mean, we need an invertible mapping from the ballot entries to curve points and we use $g^b$ for a generator $g$ and a ballot $b$ here?

## Snarkjs
- How do I create the actual ZKPs for the circuits in Circom? What do I need to do this for?
- I started reading up on snarkjs. Here, I am not sure how I can generate ptau (powers of tau) files or whether I can use the ones provided here:
    - https://github.com/iden3/snarkjs
    - Also, this is really complicated and I don't understand most of the steps taken. Could we maybe go over the instructions together?

## Writing the thesis
- I am having some trouble getting the tex-template I am supposed to use to work. 
- In the guidelines for Bachelor Thesis of the SEC it is stated that for the final presentation, I should "follow the advice for good presentations from [your] seminars" If I did not attend one of those, I should ask you about this. 
I am hereby doing this.

# Potential further research
- Lucas ladder?
- Twisted edwards curves?
- 